Update rich text docs (#321)
CloudCannon/platform-documentation: articles/what-are-rich-text-editors.mdx

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7630a593-3a92-49c0-8557-627ddd5112fe
_created_at: 2024-06-12T16:46:11+12:00
title: What are rich text editors?
nav_title: What are rich text editors?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn about rich text editors in CloudCannon.
article_category:
  - Explanation
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
A rich text editor is an interface for editing content on your Site, with tools to format and style your content. Rich text editors use a WYSIWYG editing area, meaning that the way you format the content in the editor will resemble the way it will look on your web page (WYSIWYG is an acronym for What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get).

> 

Reviewer: Somewhere at the top here we should also mention the formats that are supported (markdown, mdx, html)

CloudCannon has three kinds of rich text editors:

* [The Content Editor](/documentation/articles/the-content-editor/)
* [Editable Regions](/documentation/articles/define-editable-regions-in-your-html/) in the [Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/the-visual-editor/)
* [Rich Text Inputs](/documentation/articles/rich-text-inputs/)

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2024-04/CloudCannon-Documentation-Content-Editor-Blog.png" alt="A screenshot of the Content Editor, an editing interface for content-heavy markup files." title="The CloudCannon Content Editor" type="screenshot"/>

For each rich text editor, you can configure the WYSIWYG toolbar (including which text and image formatting tools are available for each editor), the upload paths or filenames for any assets uploaded through an editor, and how CloudCannon should handle custom markup.

> For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your rich text editors](/documentation/articles/configure-your-rich-text-editors/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't know that we need this line here since it's somewhat floating, and we link off to the same page in-context elsewhere

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  As soon as you define one key for the WYSIWYG toolbar, CloudCannon will interpret any omitted keys as false and disable those options.
</comp.Notice>

For a complete list of options available, please read our reference documentation on the [WYSIWYG toolbar in rich text editors](/documentation/articles/rich-text-editor-reference/#wysiwyg-toolbar).

## Paths

When you upload an asset through a rich text editor, you can specify which folder CloudCannon should upload that asset to. You can also define file names for those assets. For a complete list of options available, please read our reference documentation on [paths in rich text editors](/documentation/articles/rich-text-editor-reference/#wysiwyg-toolbar).

## Custom markup

> Custom markup is any HTML or Markdown structure that cannot be recreated in the rich text editor (e.g., `<div>` tags or style attributes). This is normally any structure that cannot be produced by the *WYSIWYG toolbar*. Editing custom markup in a rich text editor is risky, as you can accidentally delete HTML objects that the rich text editor cannot recreate. For information about best practices for custom markup in rich text editors, please read our [documentation](/documentation/articles/best-practices-for-rich-text/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom markup is any HTML or Markdown structure that cannot be recreated in the rich text editor (e.g., `<div>` tags or style attributes). This is normally any structure that cannot be produced by the *WYSIWYG toolbar*. Editing custom markup in a rich text editor is risky, as you can accidentally delete HTML objects that the rich text editor cannot recreate. For information about custom markup in rich text editors, please read our documentation on [best practices for rich text](/documentation/articles/best-practices-for-rich-text/).
```

(a11y for descriptive link text)

> Each rich text editor has different default handling methods. You can configure how CloudCannon handles custom markup in your rich text editors. For a complete list of options available, please read our reference documentation on [custom markup in rich text editors](/documentation/articles/rich-text-editor-reference/#wysiwyg-toolbar).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rich text editor has different defaults when editing custom markup. To configure how CloudCannon handles custom markup in your rich text editors, please read our reference documentation on [custom markup in rich text editors](/documentation/articles/rich-text-editor-reference/#wysiwyg-toolbar).
```
